hey this is pressure Walker baseball is
a game of traditions and rules rule 2.0
two of the MLB handbook carefully
defines home plate by the following
geometric construction the home base is
defined as a square where one side is 17
inches two corners are removed the two
adjacent sides measure 8 and 1/2 inches
and the remaining two sides measure 12
inches and meet at a right angle there's
only one problem with this very
carefully defined construction it's an
impossible shape mathematically this
creates an interesting geometric little
puzzle if we were to say the dimensions
of 17 inches and eight and a half inches
as well as the following right angles
are correct what would be the correct
measure of the remaining sides that is
can you solve for the correct value of x
to make home-plate geometrically
possible can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready to
keep watching the video for the solution
so how can we solve for the correct
value of x will divide the shape into
two different shapes we'll draw a line
connecting the two sides of 8 and 1/2
inches this creates an upper rectangle
and a lower isosceles right triangle
because the upper shape is a rectangle
we know that this length will be 17
inches now we can focus on the isosceles
right triangle by the Pythagorean
theorem x squared plus x squared is
equal to 17 squared
this means 2
squared is equal to 17 squared which
means x squared is equal to 17 squared
divided by 2 and so X is equal to 17
divided by the square root of 2 which is
approximately 12 point O 2 which is
slightly larger than the 12 inches
that's defined in the handbook
if MLB wanted to be mathematically
correct it could say in the next
iteration of its handbook that the two
remaining sides should measure about 12
inches did you figure it out thanks for
watching this video please subscribe to
my channel I make videos on math you can
catch me on my blog mind your decisions
that you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch me on social
media at pressure Walker and if you like
this video please check out my books
there are links in the video description